# Aidan - Choosing a language
I really wanted to use golang, but now I'm thinking that I may have to go back on that decision. The main reason is because we're going to be dealing a lot with dynamic modules which need to follow a standardized interface and be interfacable by the main process of the program. Since golang is compiled, if I wanted to do this with golang, it might look something like:
1. Build the main system in golang, compile it
2. Use a config language like json/yaml to interface with each test
3. Each test will written in a scripting language like js, python, or something else cli-interfaceable with low complexity for end-users
4. The main process runs those scripts, and files are generated by them, which can be interacted with by the main process

That doesn't even begin to question how tests and modules will be added or removed from the codebase. I suppose that will be a matter of creating forks of the main repository and adding tests. However, ideally we'd have a rather straightforward way of modifying the test/module library.

But the idea of interfacing with a bunch of files isn't necessarily ideal in terms of complexity. And thus I'm also thinking about using TypeScript instead, with which the process looks more like:
1. Build the main system in typescript (maybe adonis?)
2. Each test will also be written in typescript
3. Interfacing with tests looks like interfacing with any other module, with type enforcement by default
4. Each test is a class with a common interface

This approach would allow for one unified language, and potentially room for a better CMS in the future (no guaruntees).

Between the two, I think I'm favoring the latter.
